Let's start at the very beginning, a very good place to start our first ABC will be a four avoid.
Remember, there is no sure means of protection than prevention, and the best way to prevent yourself
from getting into any danger is by staying aware of potentially dangerous threats around you and avoiding
them altogether.
That's how you win.
It's self-defense, not by fighting, but by not having to fight at all.
It's still self-defense if you don't fight something most other Self-Defense Forces failed to mention,
but it is really your best case scenario is the one time in your life when it's actually a good thing
to be avoided.
Now, to avoid, you must first be aware.
Awareness is your first line of defense, both self-awareness and situational awareness.
Without it, it won't matter what weapons you carry or how well trained you are or what martial arts
belts you have.
None of it will do you any good.
If you are paying attention.
So don't just wander around with your head down headphones in oblivious to what's around you.
Not only won't you see any danger coming, but you'll also be more likely to be targeted.
It takes an assailant seven seconds to choose their target.
It's called victim shopping.
They're looking for easy prey who are alone, who aren't paying attention, who look submissive or easily
overpowered.
They're asking themselves, Does this person have something I want?
And what will I have to risk to get?
So you want to make it clear at all times that attacking you would be high risk that you won't take
no --?
Every assailant and criminal has the same three common fears being identified, getting injured and
getting caught.
So the more you can increase the likelihood of that in their mind, the less likely they are to target
you to begin with.
Don't make yourself an easy target.
Make yourself a hard target.
Now, with that in mind, here are some ways you can increase your awareness and achieve that ultimate
state exemption.
The remaining mind of constant awareness and relaxed readiness.
Let's start with some good old fashioned eyes scanning.
We'll do some drills in the next video to help you master this move.
The idea is to take out your headphones, look up from your phone and look around.
You take note of everything you see in each new environment you enter.
Both the people and the setting, like the buildings, the streets, the vehicles and so on.
You want to create a mental map of each new environment as quickly as possible so you can navigate it
with ease.
No matter the situation, whether that's walking confidently into a store or giving someone directions
or meeting your friends for drinks or trying to escape an assailant, it helps in any of these situations
to have the sense of your surroundings at all times.
Now, if you are in an area that you frequent, which by definition we often are, then you should have
an even easier time of this.
You already have the advantage of familiarity.
However, you are also more likely to be targeted there.
Fifty five percent of sexual assaults occur at or near the victim's home, so all the more reason to
know that area intimately, including all the routes you regularly take.
If you're paying attention, you should be able to quickly identify anything that's out of the ordinary.
Or is it normally there?
I can't tell you what exactly that will look like.
There is no one standard way someone might attack you.
It could be for any number of reasons.
From any direction and with any number of people or weapons.
So it won't help if I tell you what exactly to look for.
That will only narrow your focus and increase the chances of something I don't mention slipping by unnoticed.
But what I can tell you is that there are generally two categories of assailants who target women.
There are resource predators such as carjackers, muggers and other kinds of robbers and process predators
such as domestic abusers, rapists and serial killers.
Again, they can look any number of ways and use any number of methods.
So this is more to help you understand what they want.
Not necessarily what they will look like.
These are two very different types of predators with two very different types of goals.
So the elements to watch out for, as well as the tactics to best avoid, evade or de-escalate them,
will be different.
But both are equally dangerous and important to be aware of the resource predator wants something you
have and has decided it's worth the risk to get it from you.
He's willing to use violence, but only if intimidation alone won't be sufficient.
This is a form of a social violence where the assailant is not targeting their victim as a person,
but rather as a resource or the possessor of a resource that you wants, such as your purse, your money
or your car.
These situations can sometimes be more dangerous if they become violent because the assailant is choosing
to ignore the humanity of his victim, so he won't hesitate to hurt you as much as necessary to get
the thing he wants.
At the same time, though, they are also often more easily resolved without violence with a resource
predator.
You can usually just give up the resource he wants, and they'll have no reason to hurt you.
The process predator is not so easily appeased.
For him, the use of violence is the reason itself.
The violence is the goal.
This is an example of social violence, where the goal is to enforce or uphold social beliefs, rules,
territory or status.
Usually in order to assert dominance over the other person with a process predator.
The thing you'd have to give up to resolve the situation is yourself, which is far more valuable and
not at all worth it.
These situations are often harder to resolve without violence.
The process predator requires privacy and time for what he intends to do.
This often means needing to move you to a second location with more.
Privacy and security than where he first attacks.
This is called a secondary location, and this must be prevented at all costs.
Once there, the likelihood of violence escalating to rape, torture and even murder is extremely high
and the chances of you escaping are extremely low.
So any risk you have to take in order to escape before it gets to that is worth the price.
Now this is what women like us are more likely to face.
As for what they will look like?
The only advice I can give you is to be aware of your own bias.
Statistically, 57 percent of sexual assault perpetrators are white and 50 percent are 30 years or older.
I'm not saying ignore any uneasy feeling you might get from someone who doesn't fit this profile.
I'm just saying keep an open mind and maybe don't ignore that uneasy feeling you get from an older white
dude.
Now, while I tell you all of this to keep in mind, I don't want you to spend too much energy worrying
about trying to identify these types of predators.
Firstly, it's never that simple.
People are complex creatures.
It won't look the same in everyone.
Secondly, it's not my intention to scare you or put you on edge everywhere you go.
That's not a very fun way to live.
I only want you to keep this in the back of your mind.
For those moments when your intuition perks up or your gut tells you something is off, then this information
can help you determine if there is a real and imminent danger.
Your gut is very smart, not just biologically but psychologically.
You know, when something's up, when something doesn't feel right, that womanly intuition, as it's
so often called, is called that for a reason because we women tend to be very in tune with our instincts
about our surroundings.
It's a superpower that you should absolutely embrace and enhance.
It doesn't mean find danger around every corner.
But it does mean listen to your body when you feel it tense up.
When your heart starts to race your shoulders, contract your skin, tingles your eyes.
Dart around.
Know what it feels like in your body when your inner warning bells start to go off.
So you can recognize it right away and take advantage of that heightened energy and awareness.
We often ignore or deny that feeling when it's happening.
So the best lesson you can learn here is to listen to it and heed it.
Better to be ready for something that never happens.
They're not ready when something does better safe than sorry, right?
Let's do some drills to help you master your situational and self awareness.
So when you're ready and willing, move on to the next video and practice them yourself and then watch
how they start to transform your self-awareness and your self-confidence.